docs/source/core.rst, before:

Core API
========

poliastro.core.angles module
****************************

.. automodule:: poliastro.core.angles
   :members:

poliastro.core.elements module
******************************

.. automodule:: poliastro.core.elements
   :members:

poliastro.core.hyper module
***************************

.. automodule:: poliastro.core.hyper
   :members:

poliastro.core.iod module
*************************

.. automodule:: poliastro.core.iod
   :members:

poliastro.core.perturbations module
***********************************

.. automodule:: poliastro.core.perturbations
   :members:

poliastro.core.thrust package
*****************************

.. automodule:: poliastro.core.thrust.change_a_inc
   :members:

.. automodule:: poliastro.core.thrust.change_argp
   :members:

.. automodule:: poliastro.core.thrust.change_ecc_quasioptimal
   :members:

.. automodule:: poliastro.core.thrust.change_inc_ecc
   :members:

poliastro.core.propagation module
*********************************

.. automodule:: poliastro.core.propagation
   :members:

poliastro.core.stumpff module
*****************************

.. automodule:: poliastro.core.stumpff
    :members:

poliastro.core.util module
**************************

.. automodule:: poliastro.core.util
    :members:

Commit message:

Util Documentation + Matrix Package
This commit adds the following features to the core.utils documentation:

[+] Possibility of adding matrix in latex form
[+] Examples of how functions work

docs/source/core.rst, after:

Core API
========

Introduction
------------

The poliastro.core includes a set of modules with several functions to compute conversions between orbital parameters.

poliastro.core.angles module
****************************

.. automodule:: poliastro.core.angles
   :members:

poliastro.core.elements module
******************************

.. automodule:: poliastro.core.elements
   :members:

poliastro.core.hyper module
***************************

.. automodule:: poliastro.core.hyper
   :members:

poliastro.core.iod module
*************************

.. automodule:: poliastro.core.iod
   :members:

poliastro.core.perturbations module
***********************************

.. automodule:: poliastro.core.perturbations
   :members:

poliastro.core.thrust package
*****************************

.. automodule:: poliastro.core.thrust.change_a_inc
   :members:

.. automodule:: poliastro.core.thrust.change_argp
   :members:

.. automodule:: poliastro.core.thrust.change_ecc_quasioptimal
   :members:

.. automodule:: poliastro.core.thrust.change_inc_ecc
   :members:



Propagation Module
------------------
poliastro.core.propagation module
*********************************
.. automodule:: poliastro.core.propagation
   :members:


Stumpff Module
--------------
poliastro.core.stumpff module
*****************************
.. automodule:: poliastro.core.stumpff
    :members:




Util Module
-----------
poliastro.core.util module
*****************************
.. automodule:: poliastro.core.util
    :members:
